>> Maximiliano Firtman: The last lab that
I have for you today is Cooking Masters.
Cooking Masters is a multi-page
application for a recipe website, okay?
And we were going to
implement new patterns.
We are going to do two,
the ones that we can do in short time.
View Transitions for For
multi page applications and pre fetch.
So let's apply both, Okay?
So for that, let's go
back to our BS code,
>> Maximiliano Firtman: And
I'm going to open
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Cooking
Master's Initial.
Remember, you also have a final
version for everything here.
And now I'm going to open a browser.
By the way, there is no JavaScript here.
No JS file.
Just HTML, css.
No JavaScript, okay.
So when I can use this other MPX,
herb or this other browser,
this is how it looks like,
okay, Cooking Master's.
So I have recipes, Fish Tacos,
Vegetarian, of course,
we have some Argentinian Asado, that's
like a barbecue that we have in Argentina.
Also do select the brownies is
also an Argentinian recipe.
But it's a Calamari, you get it.
It's another HTML.
Calamari HTML,
we have the recipe, that's all.
So pretty simple.
But yeah, every time I'm getting into
this, you can feel, even if it's local,
it's really fast, but you can feel
we are kind of changing the page.
Okay, so, it doesn't look like an app.
It look like a,
it looks like a website from the 90s,
where you click on a link and
it goes somewhere else, okay?
So, yeah, it doesn't look so nice.
So we are going to start enabling page
view transitions for cross documents.
That's the name of the API for this.
It works on Chrome 126,
if you wanna see the version of
your Chrome or by the way,
if you have also edge,
you can also use about here I
think it works on Chrome and Edge.
At, at, at the time of shooting this
video, the stable version 125 so
it's not going to work here.
So I'm going to open Chrome Canary.
If you have the bettee version,
it should work as well.
So canary is 127 in my case,
so it will work here, okay.
But probably when you're watching
this video, it works on your Chrome,
directly in your stable Chrome.
So from here, then,
I'm going to open Cooking Master's.
Okay, so I'm going to use this browser,
just to see this in action.
How to enable page view transitions for
cross documents.
So there is a big difference
with the previous version.
We don't need to use JavaScript.
Right?
Because,
It makes sense because when you click
on a link and you're getting out,
you are not trapping that with transcript
because while on before unload,
on unload, the lifecycle of the page
that is getting out of the navigation,
it's not good enough for
you to start working with, anyway,
there are new events that you can find
if you want to customize the animation.
It's about CSS, at least the basic part.
So if you open right now, all the HTMLs
are pointing to the same css,
so that's good.
Then they're all pointing to the same css,
styles.css.
So, if you open styles.css, we are going
to start adding a new css property.
It's add-view-transition and
here we can say navigation-auto.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: We
are enabling with this.
View page transitions between navigations.
In this case, both the initial page and
the destination page,
they both have to have navigation enabled.
So they both need that css, both pages.
Okay?
Make sense?
And by the way, this,
what you're going to see here works
only on pages on the same origin,
so there should be two HTML
documents from the same origin.
Do you all know what an origin is?
Protocol plus host plus port,
so typically the domain.
So I cannot do a view transition
from my website to google.com,
it's not gonna work.
Even if google.com is also adding
that css, it's not gonna work, okay?
It's only for different HTML
patients from the same domain.
So if I try now, if I click,
I'm not sure if you see the difference.
But now, I mean it's difficult
to feel the difference,
but now there is a transition.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Again,
it's not simple to see that, but
there is a transition now, a transition
that then you can customize with
the same properties that we saw for
single patients.
So now it doesn't feel like, by the way,
the first time you get in there.
I think it's going
recognizing it pretty good.
So.
So it's a cross phase by default,
the same as before.
But can we use the same technique
to take this image, for
example, and
morph this image into this other image?
I think that will be really cool.
Does it make sense?
So yeah, we can do that, even if they
are part of completely separate documents.
The only thing is that they have to
have the same build transition name.
So for example,
let's go to Fish Tacos HTML.
Fish Tacos HTML.
Again, this has no JavaScript HTML.
And I will take just one part,
here I have the image.
I can take the image or I can take
the whole div, it's up to me, but
let's take the image.
And I will set, I will use,
let's open the index as well.
Index styles, but of course I can
use an external style as well.
I can say the view transition
name to be Fish Tacos.
So what's the point with that?
This is the target page.
If the origin page has one element and
only one element, if you have two,
it's not gonna work.
You need one, one and only one.
If you have one with the same view
transition name, it should make it
morph even if we are talking about
completely different patients.
Because remember, the browser
is taking a snapshot before and
after loading the content.
So, I'm going to copy this
style to the index HTML, and
I'm going to find here,
here I have the image, okay?
I can apply it to the image, but remember,
I don't need to apply it to the image.
I can just apply it,
I have a div here, looks like this,
and apply it to the div,
or the image, up to you.
So if I save this now,
let's go back here, let's refresh,
if I click on Fish Tacos, so
now I think that that's pretty cool,
because now it doesn't feel like
you are loading different HTMLs.
And maybe you're thinking why do I
want to do a multi page application?
Okay, that's a different story.
Okay, probably not for
this workshop to get into details, but
there are a lot of situations where making
a client side application is adding more
problems than solutions.
And I mean, think about the newspaper,
website, but
you can still Get an app-like experience
with a blog, if you have a blog,
if it's an e-book,
something like that where it's not really
an app there is some content there
with a lot of HTMLs, Wikipedia.
Do you want Wikipedia to be an app?
Like a client-side app.
Maybe, maybe not.
If it's just HTML documents,
you can upgrade the experience and
convert that in something
that looks like this.
Of course, it doesn't work with
the other ones because I need to go and
change one by one, but I think that
you got the idea of how this work.
Okay, so you just need to define
the same ID for each image.
So you go and set vegetarian pole
as the beauty transition name
on that image and
also on the other one and so on.
So you can still get boot transitions,
but for multi page application,
which I think is pretty cool.